---
layout: org
permalink: /:collection/:path.html
---
# What are Stacks token



## A brief history

Was a bitcoin based etc.


## What are Stacks token

In XXX 2018 Blockstack introduced the stacks&tm; token. The token is specific to
the Blockstack ecosystem. It ensures prices of names and namespaces will no
longer fluctuate with Bitcoin.

The Stacks token will follow Blockstack Core if it needs to be migrated to a new
blockchain, so any tokens you hold now will be useable as long as Blockstack
Core exists.

The Stacks token will make it possible for light clients to calculate the
economic weight of different Blockstack Core chain forks, and identify the fork
with the most economic activity. Today, light clients have to be told a priori
which fork to use.

The Stacks token will make it possible to implement proof-of-burn mining, a new
type of blockchain mining algorithm where instead of burning electricity to
produce blocks, miners burn an existing cryptocurrency. PoB mining is useful
because it moves Blockstack transactions off of Bitcoin while keeping the
security properties Bitcoin offers, and it enables decentralized app-specific
chains to be built on top of Blockstack.

The Stacks token will make it possible to implement full-fledged smart
contracts. Right now, Blockstack Core supports a very simple kind of smart
contract (namespaces), but in the future it will support any smart contract
written in a non-Turing-complete Lisp dialect we’re developing. The language
will be expressive enough to implement things like name/namespace auctions and
name trading on-chain. Before this can go live, however, there needs to be a way
to incentivize miners to process a smart contract’s execution. The Stacks token
enables this.t
